# Online Gesture Recognizer


 
a. Store the points generated by the mouse or touch events on your canvas :

* We had captured the gesture drawn by the user in the form of a list of points using an ArrayList data structure {Line 56 CanvasBoard.Java}
* This ArrayList is named as 'points'. When the user drags the mouse, these data points are collected in the methods mousePressed {Line 94 CanvasBoard.Java} 
and mouseDragged {Line 109 CanvasBoard.Java}
* In the mouseReleased method {Line 126 CanvasBoard.Java}, the collected data points will be sent to helper_method2 method {Line 198 Board.Java}, which will further 
call PreRecognize and recognizing methods {Line 201 Board.Java}


b. Store a default set of templates to compare new candidate (input) gestures to : 

* Main method will call readGestureTemplates method {Line 221 CanvasBoard.Java}, this will load all the templates before canvas board instantiation.
* We had taken the stored gesture templates located in dollar.js and converted these templates to java. By using add_templatePoints 
method {Line 262 CanvasBoard.Java}, we are processing the data points for each gesture. 
* In the method readGestureTemplates {Line 273-371 CanvasBoard.Java}, for each gesture template, we are storing the name and ArrayList of corresponding points.
* At the end of this step, total list of gesture templates will be stored i.e. a List of 16 gestures will be stored in ArrayList named 
 'templates' {Line 59 CanvasBoard.Java}



c. Implement the $1 recognition algorithm and call it when a gesture is drawn :  

* We had implemented the four steps of the recognition algorithm using methods (i)resampling {Line 44 GestureComputing.java}, 
(ii)rotation {Line 102 GestureComputing.java}, (iii)scaling {Line 138 GestureComputing.java}, (iv)translation {Line 169 GestureComputing.java}
* We had preprocessed the gesture templates at instantiation using a helper method {Line 200 GestureComputing.java}
* A method named recognizing is written {Line 13 GestureComputing.java}, which will call the above mentioned methods for the user drawn gesture. 


d. Output the result of the recognition call to the GUI onscreen : 

* After all the points are loaded, these list of point will be sent to helper_method2 method, which internally calls recognizing method in mouseRelease event.
{Line 144 CanvasBoard.Java}
* label_resampled is a JLabel which is instantiated at line 182 in main method. This field will be set will name and score of the matched
 template.{Line 205 CanvasBoard.Java} 
* User can redraw an other gesture.

Code Execution begins: at main() method of CanvasBoard.Java file. 
